We're talking with John Dan at the Clements Library.
Okay, why don't you just start again with what you were saying?
Sure.
Well, this is an exhibit that I put in this spring.
We have an associates group.
And this spring I gave a talk on trying to explain what the library is for, why it's here.
And it was titled...
the whys and wherefores of the Clements Library revisited because Randolph Adams, the first director, had given such an, well, it started as an interview in the 20s, and I wanted to go back and sort of talk about it.
But in conjunction with this, I put together this exhibit to attempt to explain to the layman why we collect, how we collect,
A sense of, a little bit of a sense of what things cost, the fact that some of them are very expensive, some things are not very expensive.
And so I just took a representative grade.
I took the calendar year 1989.
And every item in this case was acquired in that year.
Right.
And it's purely representative.
I could have done the same exhibit on any year, but it was the last year in which the items have all come back from the bindery, and so I could put my finger on the items.
But I would really urge that before, maybe right now, why don't you, if you could just walk, it goes this way, that way, and if you see anything here, you could, of course, read it into your...
And then once you've done that, Sedan, what is your time?
Toby's with me.
He's coming back at 3.
But I've got a little more time if I need.
All right.
Well, this will take you about 20 minutes.
Okay.
If you would do that, I think you would find your questions to me.
Say that again.
I love it.
I'd say, you know, Mike Zimmerman is an absolutely brilliant collector.
I think of
In Americana, the most exciting collector that I have personal
delightful and you know it's daring it takes uh new thoughts new ideas we make a really great point and he has that he goes on a few lines he doesn't miss it when i was doing a lot of people
that he lied.
And he only went several books.
Let's talk a little bit about that.
I'm not going to be very few things are unique in this, you know, but it certainly is quite a strong institution with character and sort of its own identity.
No question about it.
And it is one of the facts that I've worked with
is the debt that scholarship owes to the private collection, which has tried and dramatized with a number of stories, both contemporary, such as Michael Simmons, and Bill Shady, and Tyler Gordon, and Colby, in a different way.
But also, the debt that we owe to people like Henry Huntington, and William Andrews Clark, and Colger, and in fact, I think every major
institution at some level within a public library.
Oh, that's true.
It's a collective.
Yeah.
Now, you know, it's one of those facets of American life that, well, that's American life throughout the world.
It does
People are always .
People should give all their money to take care of immediate pressing social problems.
But the sort of institutions that you're just describing,
He's so much for the souls of the minds of people.
At 22nd, they were so many people who taught this vision of history or beauty or whatever else brings people to the book.
And I think what's great about people like Clemens and Dr. Brown and Huntington
is that they institutionalize not simply their collection, but this collecting and enthusiasm, and those institutions which have really thrived are the ones that are still pursuing the collection that their founders enjoyed so much.
That's very important, because Tyler Adams, of course, and J.C.
Brown's model of what institutions such as this were.
I guess the...oh, great.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, great.
This occupies space in the University of Michigan, but this is, I guess, a private institution, is that correct?
No, we're very similar to John Carter-Brown.
Clements was an Ann Arbor native graduate of the university.
He captured him very well.
Looks a little bit like Morgan.
He does.
He made his money in a very unromantic business of building heavy construction machinery, cranes.
He was an engineer.
And had a very good intel from
the 90s until the Depression.
He died in 1934.
He had taken history courses, so he was always interested in it.
But at about the turn of the century, he became fascinated by a small collection made by a local
Amateur historian antiquarian in Bay City, Michigan, where he lived.
And this was a man who had attended some of the great book auctions of the 1870s and 80s in New York.
And he put together a select library of primary birth materials, which no one else in Bay City is particularly appreciated.
He loved this book, fell in love with the collection,
He bought that collection and then decided to collect.
And he was one of these people that when he got into something, he did it in a very systematic way.
If he was going to collect, he wanted to collect in a first grade way.
And he cultivated three men in particular who were his primary advisers in his collecting.
That was Henry Stevens in London.
It was later Harper, then a young dealer in New York.
And it was George P. Linship, librarian at the John Carter Brown, who later became librarian at Harper.
And Harper and Stevens were his friends.
major sources throughout his collection, although he does with many other dealers.
Can you give it to the doctor?
Oh, yes, to some extent.
And Randolph Adams, the first director of the library, his picture you see there, Tom's father, was a very close friend of the doctor.
We never, we couldn't afford the doctor's prices.
But the doctors fairly had a high regard for Adams, and Adams had a high regard for the doctor, and they both enjoyed sitting with a bottle on the table and talking books and book people.
Couldn't Mr. Clemming explain the doctor?
Well, he occasionally.
In a way, Clements was almost getting the books at the source before the doctor got it.
Well, I would say that he used Beeler to meet me.
Harper, the three men I mentioned knew as much about the fine points of physiography.
They knew what was the important book, what was the secondary important book.
They knew values.
And so I think the key to Cummins collecting was simply rounding up as personal friends, advisors, and sources the people who knew as much as anyone on the page of the earth about the field he was collecting.
So it was, Cummins was a very intelligent guy.
He was,
He read the books, he was interested in them, but he brought an expertise through these three people to what he was doing, which he couldn't have developed on his own unless he had started out.
Did he develop his own expertise and did Clemens become an authority in time?
Are you thinking what he delegated to?
Well, he became very knowledgeable.
He had a sense of bibliography.
He read bibliography.
He studied his books.
But he was neither a consummate scholar nor a professional bibliographer.
So it was as a collector that he
You see, then, once he established this library, Randolph Adams, as the director, was his authority.
And Adams was a very precocious, very brilliant historian and collector.
I'm using his book, Pre-American, as a source for it.
Yes.
Yeah.
Well, he was so... So Cummins was blessed with...
That thing takes a certain personality to get people like this to take the time to do what they did.
I think he was also blessed in a couple of ways.
He was collecting in a very competitive period.
You know, as you are well aware when you read the Rosenbach biography and you go back and pick it.
Auctions made the front page of the New York Times in that period.
That was my reading that time story.
Yeah.
Page one, not only there, but all over America.
Absolutely.
Yep.
Well, Clements did not have multi-news behind him.
He had, his resources were very modest in comparison to J.C.
Morgan or Huntington.
Did he see them in this competition, though?
Was he trying to build a library, an institution that could stand in there?
Oh, yes, no question about it.
And he did.
This was all from the beginning, right?
He wasn't really collecting for William Clemens to enjoy a library in his home or things.
We could probably say that the goal from the outset was this institution.
Well, he first enunciated the idea of establishing this place maybe
Eight or ten years after he started to talk.
He started in 1904.
I will give you a biography of Mr. Trump, which I have, which is quite dense.
And so it will pin down some of those facts.
And I'll give you several things to be very useful.
But 1904 was a year that he just got into it.
Did he become obsessed with it?
It became his great passion.
His greatest passion.
And by about 1915 or so, I believe, you start to get hints that he's thinking of a larger way.
One of his sons died in World War I. I think this put an end to the idea of passing the collection on within the family.
So he may have been friends, I think.
There might have been.
First, he had a beautiful home.
Loved to have the library.
He created sort of a country house atmosphere in his home, although it was actually in a town.
But there's a limit to how much you can impress people with books that don't know how many of those people.
Yeah, so he became, in Michigan, he became a regent of the University of Michigan.
At about the same time, he began collecting.
At that time, before the vast bureaucracy, if it's twice, the regents broke up into committees to take care of church things on capital.
Clements was involved in the buildings.
Among the buildings he dealt with were the lives of the library.
So he's given thought to libraries, and
I think with the death of his son, it was absolutely certain that the university was replaced.
Now, he had another son, but he was presumably not interested.
He also was divorced.
in the last few years of his life, which created a certain amount of experience with his family.
When he started to think about putting the collection here, this is when Winship, who had been both the librarian of John Carter Brown, and then
So he sat on both sides of the fence with a collection in the Mayan Library.
And he was, Winship is largely responsible for the form in which the Clements Library plugs into the university.
He said, don't give your collection to the main university library.
No matter what you think, he said.
He said, the books will get put on the shelf.
They'll get marked up.
They'll get stolen.
He said that any way possible, they will, if you leave an endowment, they'll figure out ways to use it for more important practical reasons.
So he was the man that told Cummins to establish a separate institution.
Being a regent, he had the connections, and what's beautiful is that the Congress
The gift agreement setting this up was written, and it's an actual legal contract in which Clements built the building at his expense on the university land.
He gave his collection and returned the university agreed to make it a separate department that plugs into the university at the president's office.
It is governed by a group of five people, the president,
the librarian, main of the university, a colonial historian, and then two outsiders, which it was on the committee for 10 or 15 years, perhaps collectors, perhaps benefactors, but outsiders who are not part of the university.
And what it has done is, by sort of checks and balances,
It ensures that the president doesn't just use the library as a sort of signature position to call somebody that he wants to get out of the way.
It ensures that the main university library doesn't swallow it up and reduce it to insignificance.
An academic scholar will not say, why spend $10,000 for a book when you can get a photocopy for a few dollars and 50 cents?
And it ensures that the collectors do not have you spending a fortune for beautiful things that don't have an academic research realm.
There have only been...
There have only been three directors of the line.
That's something I want to get to.
Tom Adams said that's one of the great continuing strengths.
Total continuity.
Mr. Adams, who I just, I feel as if I know him because of the law of continuity.
And by extension, you know Clemens, really.
I really do.
I know people that know Clemens.
I have known, I've worked with
I worked with a lady in town who was a daunting companion and who attended book sales with Mr. Clements before World War I. I knew briefly that Mrs. Clements, I met her, I have met members of the family.
I know people who knew him well in Bay City.
I knew, when I got here in 1971, there were still academics around who were grown from us.
Adams, I have known many people that, you know, he knew well and worked with.
Of course, I know Tom.
Adams, well, think the world of it.
You're a defender in many ways.
You have something that you have to do.
Oh, that's a question.
I consider that this library has a life of its own, and I would do anything to preserve what this library is for.
Tell me about the life of its own.
What do you mean by that?
Well, the Clemens Library has a very decided role to play at the university.
and in a larger role in the preservation, the collecting and the preservation and making available of research materials in this particular field.
And it's absolutely unique what we do.
We have similarities to the John Carter Brown.
We have similarities to the AIS where there are similarities with the Folger and the Huntington.
But as you know, the more you get into these libraries, everyone is very unique.
And Clements and Adams, and the Adams was director from the very beginning, 1923, until he died in 51.
He was succeeded by Howard Peckham.
Howard had started here in 1934.
He was the manuscript curator from Harry's Vine in 45.
He left to be head of the historical
Bureau of Indiana, but came back in 53 and was director until 77.
I came here in 1971 and was Howard Peckham's director for six years.
We ate lunch together almost every day.
He knew Adams the way I knew him.
So it's always been as if I knew these people.
I have read the letters.
So I really, I feel that I'm doing exactly what Mr. Clemens intended this place to do.
Now, yeah, there's been changes in the way scholars work.
We have, time has gone on that some of the kind of things that we collect are somewhat different from what was being collected from the place open for two reasons.
Scholars and students are interested in other things.
Secondly, in the first 20, 30 years of the library, you have to begin in the sort of basics.
Well, now I think we're in the, from all point of view, in the perfect position to be in if you are
Maniac Collector Design.
And that is... Your Maniac Collector?
Without any question, as we're both at it.
In fact, I mean, really, to the point of this thing.
On an institutional basis.
Oh, yeah.
Well, my book is about Maniacs.
Tell me about institutional things.
Are you saying that, or how do you...
I mean, well, I mean that in the sense of bibliomania, in that I think that my interest in collecting, and I think true collecting, is there's no difference between bibliomania and addiction to substances of various sorts.
I mean, I think it's the same way.
I need a book fix.
with regularity.
I have to keep continually collecting, or I would go through some terrible withdrawal sentence.
Now once in a while I go fishing for a couple of weeks.
But I don't stop thinking about it.
The collecting, collecting is a, I think it's a very civilized activity, and I do it at this library from the highest of motives of promoting scholarship.
But the disease itself is, I don't know whether it's an honorable... You like my title?
No, we don't have any questions.
It's true.
And, you know, all the book collectors I have met, I don't know, where do you get those collections from?
I don't know.
I don't know when you're born with it.
It's genetic.
Now, I personally came from a book collecting background, to some extent.
I, uh, my parents loved history, and they were smart, you know, they were out of all kinds of historic sites, but I always loved history.
But I always had this collective thing, which they never really quite understood.
And I think I must have picked it up from a grandfather of mine, who was an extremely ardent book collector.
And when I was about ten years old, I got folio,
So I was out of school for a year.
My grandfather would take me to my exercises, and then I hung around with him.
And so when I was 10, I was going to George Allen's book shop at McManus.
And in Philadelphia, I was going to Baldwin's book form.
So you're from Philly.
I'm from Wilmington, Delaware.
And I was reading book catalogs, and my grandfather
His great enthusiasm was anti-slavery history, and he did some publications, Delaware history.
And he had rooms in his house that were just every wall with that book.
He had them stream all over the floor.
He lived in an old-fashioned sort of gentlemanly style.
And he'd have formal new dinner.
And he would dress and have soap.
And I would go over and sit in a civilized environment.
He'd get up to the mailbox.
He'd get the book catalog, and he would sit there, even though more or less dinner would stop for a little bit.
and he would read the book catalog.
He'd go over and pick up the phone and call in the organ.
That was in my blood.
Do you collect personally or do you get enough satisfaction?
I only collect rare books here.
I'm a PhD in history.
I write books.
I pursue research, so I collect reference types of music.
But no, I sort of feel my home is not an ideal environment.
Before I came here, I was an art collector.
I really think, though, if I analyzed my collecting, I was collecting almost as a deal in the course.
I would get far.
I would get to do it.
You know, one liked that, a lot of that.
You know, he loves the wheeling and dealing.
And you know, what I would say in my own collection for the library, I think one of the strengths that I have, or one of the things that makes me find so many treasures, is that I feel a very close relationship with the trade.
I have my best friends, I mean my best friends in the world, several of them are the dealers.
I can go out, and I go out with dealers on science.
I can do that because I can, I understand their, I don't have to have to grab everything myself.
And we have a nice sort of relationship.
But so many librarians in the standard library don't understand the church.
I'm going to give you a quote.
I actually had a question.
Jackson was the best friend of Jackson.
He was the best friend of Yale ever had because he was too elusive.
So they offered good things to Yale as an old artist, you know.
I mean, it's basically that kind of situation.
I better not say, name names, but I can say that I get a lot of things that would go elsewhere except that those other places, if the dealer feels humiliated, feels hassled,
in one way or another by some other librarian, and they just don't want it.
Now, I will bargain, will appeal, and that's it.
But it's a bargain if I honestly believe there was a lie.
But I thoroughly understand respect, and I suppose if I were not a librarian here, what I would be would be a book dealer.
because I've got... I have the passion and the understanding.
I know that I could go and set myself up in New York City and could just by attending the Sutterby University sales could make more money in a year times two than my salary.
Oh, absolutely.
But it's fantastic.
The joy of hearing is that you collect and it becomes a permanent part of the collection you have.
You see that non-stop person.
I've been director here long enough.
I don't think there is one shelf in any whim here that I know there is a book that I haven't, although I can't remember anything practical in my life.
When I go into a bookshop, I can just look.
As almost every collector I know, you look at the shelves and you already know half the titles.
I can do a bookstore very quickly.
20,000, 30,000.
I can find what I'm looking for very quickly.
The eye knows what it's looking for, and we do so.
The eye is processing what you already have, which is the question you get.
Well, you know, the thing that I love about the Columbus... Let me go back and say one thing we started off.
And that is, you know, where you say there's a continuity.
Too good, I don't want to miss anything.
Well Clements, this library from its inception has always been within the environment of a top flight university, graduate training level university.
So for me, I have an academic history background.
So whenever there is something that comes up,
The question that I always ask, and Howard always asked, and Randolph Adams always asked, of that book was, does it have research value?
We are not collecting, we don't have a rare book collection, which is based on value or beauty alone.
And that makes us very different from some of these other libraries.
We also, from the very beginning,
I mean, within his first two years of collecting, he had made a decision that his interest was American history from the period of exploration.
He sort of lost interest after War of 1812, personally.
Although the library, Randolph Adams was collecting the whole war, and he even collected the World Wars.
Essentially, today, we are collecting discovery through the end of the 19th century.
See, A&Fs believe we were here.
They cut off.
Howard Peckham had a cutoff.
Randolph Adams did not.
But Howard, Howard was always a little bit afraid of facing a potential addition to the building.
So, and it's not a personal interest.
So in the 50s and the 60s, our literature also had a good waiting of cutoff dates anywhere from 1825 up to 1865.
But Howard didn't live by the cut-off phase either.
Well, as you point out in your remarks out there, you can't ignore a package of opportunity.
I mean, something really exciting presents itself.
So it's two years outside of your scope.
You may never see this thing again, and it's important to your scholars.
So you know, when I do those things, I am
thoroughly aware of where our library's strengths are.
And so you build.
But I build very carefully upon strengths.
I don't go into some, you know, I wouldn't, just because it was a bargain or available, buy a collection of Oriental literature.
But I would do it.
I would either contact a university, which should be doing it, another part of this university, or a member of the trade.
I mean, I feel that my job in sort of promoting rare books and such collections goes well beyond just this library.
And I do feel I'm part of a larger world out there.
I've never felt strongly competitive with any institutions.
And in reality, use art very often in competition.
even with the antiquarian society.
Since I've been director, the only people... Martin Carson, as you know I'm sure well, he's as intensely collector-oriented as I am, or I am as he.
Ed Wolfe was that way.
And I used to...
They only occasionally sort of have to do that, knowing, like, in an auction situation.
Well, it happens.
Look at the, you know, what you're doing.
You're doing similar things.
Yeah.
Now, what is, what would you say your acquaintances?
Is it preeminent in any of the situations?
It's certainly, yeah, it is.
It is absolutely preeminent in the field you've ever seen.
Combined with our favorite resources and our managed pictures first.
Summers, when he set this place, not proud of it as a rare book collection, but in the first of the 20s, they managed to, he already had one major revolutionary war here, a collection of papers of Lord Sheldon.
But in the 20s, they managed to, he and Adams,
where there's the Gage papers, the Clinton papers, the Germain papers, and a variety of books, which are really the archives of the British Army during the original abolition.
And he got from Saban, the book dealers of State, he got from the Daniel Queen papers on the American side.
So any good scholar of the American Revolution comes into the book.
Would you say, is it a fair assessment that the East Coast would have, let's say, I think it's happening at the Morgan in New York.
Are you really the institution they would bring to the coast?
I think you can add the Newberry in there in its various gifts.
You know, the Newberry, the Huntington,
And the Morgans, combined with the Houghton, that's a sort of rare book.
Made up rare book.
Well, a New York public library.
Yeah, that's Lennox with that Americana.
Every one of them is collected.
But those libraries, Lennox and it, see, I would say Lennox and Mr. Clement, the Lennox Americana.
the Clements library and the John Carter Brown, and then the Folgers library, are more similar in being subject-oriented from the beginning as the collection developed.
It's kind of unique in America too, isn't it, to have these institutions where you are affiliated with a university, but particularly the capital of the Folgers library.
Yeah, I mean, we're talking about collectives who set up an institution.
Well, next collectives, really, not near that anywhere else in the world.
Think of any other place where you have an institution that has emerged research institutions.
No, it's phenomenal.
And that's a fair assessment, isn't it?
I think so.
I mean, there may be a few institutions elsewhere.
There certainly are some special collections libraries elsewhere in the world that are identified with a ballpark or even the British Library or the British Museum.
But that was in its initial, it's not the same.
It's not, nor do you have that, I don't think you have that situation where
one man in his lifetime was able to do so much that he could create a mature vision before he died.
You mentioned that you have the book.
Yes.
Do you have any, all collectors have formed members of their great tribe.
Do you have similar experiences?
Oh, many, many.
Well, you know, you can get this kind of satisfaction at so many levels.
It's fun to, when you have a great item, appear even at one of the major auctions and to line up your funds and get it
so you're able to succeed again.
The comments, an example of that was getting one of the hack atlaces, which we acquired from the Houghton collection, which was sold in the late 70s.
Arthur Houghton, and he had, the public library, you asked about preeminence,
The Clemens Library has his final collection of early American maps.
We have more manuscript maps of the Revolution than any other library in the United States.
It's a spectacular collection of maps.
And so, because it is a strong collection, I really go all the way to try to fill in the Gattons when we get one.
Well, one area that's very poorly represented in printed maps is the west coast of South America.
And there were a series of atlases done by a noted London mapmaker named William Pack in the 1680s and 90s, which were largely based on charts captured by a group of pirates in 1681.
Oh, it's wonderful.
And Putin owns two of these batteries, and they're the last two that would ever be available.
So I was sitting in my office, and my map curator came up and just sort of wishfully said, oh, you know, those facts are coming up in three or four days.
And I said, well, we've never seen the Cadillac.
And we discovered our subscription.
The subscription had run out.
So I said, well, look, go on over to the main library and see if you can borrow the Cadillac.
And he brought it over.
And I'm not sure, but that maybe because I had such a short time to do this, I was willing to go so far out on a limb.
But I looked at it, and I figured out how much cash I could come up with.
And I figured I had about $40,000, and the estimates were maybe $15,000 to $25,000.
But I thought, well, I could at least spend a bit.
Did you say I might have more money?
Well, what I had to do, when I started going to something very big, I had to go and get permission.
of my committee of marriage, then I go to the president of the university.
I go around and ask.
They have universally always been go-getting, supportive, positive.
Thank God.
I mean, I wouldn't be here if they weren't.
So I went around and got, and I am one of these people I'm so enthusiastic about for.
When I go and talk to somebody, my enthusiasm passes off the person back at me.
So I encouraged myself, and the more I thought about it, the more excited I thought, the more I decided we had it really done for it.
So, one of the last persons, after I made the rounds, I called the man who was the chairman of our sessions, and his name was Jim Schultz, F-C-H-O-S-M.
He was a, had been,
recently retired president of Bloomsdale, the finest man I all have ever met, wonderful friend and advisor, and a great collector, Civil War material and Revolutionary War.
And so I found him, and he
He was an enthusiast, one guy.
Oh.
Yeah, so it was a function, you know.
Yeah, what he said, he said, well, look, he said, what you gotta do.
We had also put out theories to do it in this century might go for it.
And came up with the realization, well, really none of the libraries were going to do it.
But the dealers and the private forces
And we came back and we sort of realized that Crouch was likely to go for pretty for something.
So I talked to Jim Shope, and Jim was a very tasty guy, and he said, well, you ought to go to one of your competitors.
Go to Paul's.
Crouch was in London.
I saw that off.
But he said, hire him to buy it for you, and then you've eliminated one of them.
You're no competitor.
So I had never personally gotten with Krauss before, but I got his number, and I called him, and got him on the phone and loved him.
And I asked him what he felt he would need to bring to make a serious difference.
And I have, in this process, have worked my life from 40 to 70.
All right.
Paul said that I wouldn't go into it unless I had a hundred dollars.
Then I'd make a couple calls back.
He felt it was that extraordinary.
Well, he thought it would bring that kind of money.
And so I...
Jim Shope and I now were both deeply into that.
And Jim, of course, was not only an advisor, but a benefactor who could help out and could whip up the enthusiasm on the part of our friends group to make the papers and get a consortium.
Yeah, so, you know, if Jim gave his, he was in many ways the most important person to give green light.
So he said, well, if he needs 100, you've got to get him 100.
So we, I talked a little bit more, and people were willing to let me go on 100, and we just figured out where we can find the money.
So I called Krauss.
The last time I talked to Sheldon, he said, well, you know, all right, he said you needed 100,000.
He said, give him 120,000.
So I bid, I called Krauss to hand a hundred, I mean our bid would be 125, but Schatz added one ticket in his post, which is the result of a white debt.
He said, you know, we're 125, but then asked him that if he buys a consult above that figure, would he give you post-reputation to buy?
And I added that when I made my bid.
I said,
that could leave the office.
If you die, it could leave the office.
So the sale took place literally the next day, and I got a call from Mrs. Krause immediately after the sale, and she said that the item cost, well, but it was all wrong.
We're talking about
The 125 has figured in the commission, but they have a 10%.
It included .
Well, she called in including the commission, she's done across the 144 .
Are you in?
And I didn't dare put the phone on hold for a fair reason to recall.
But I said, one minute, and I can tell the fellows
And so I called.
I mean, I picked it up and I said yes sir.
Well, we were $90,000 short in cash to pay for this.
And this was a long one.
There wasn't a lot of money involved.
But it wasn't with a clutch period.
So you had 50.
And I went over to the university.
I had done this, and I went to see the controller of the university and the president.
They lent me the extra.
They won the check.
with the idea that what we didn't have was a weapon.
And then we started to beat the bushes.
And yeah, I'll read our books.
We got it on the front page.
We had the first page of the Detroit News, first page of the Detroit Free Press.
I had two television interviews on this.
The Pirate Atlas, you know.
It was very exciting.
Oh, sure.
Oh, whoa.
And believe it or not,
I went to a foundation in Detroit, the McGregor Fund, which Tracy McGregor was on our board for the McGregor Room at UVA.
For him, he was a great book collector.
But the McGregor Fund has always been very supportive of Martin Arbery.
They gave me a $25,000 action grant.
I got one in several places.
In six months, we were able to raise
every penny for that atlas, and that the atlas became not, the university did not come one cent for that.
So, to go back to my question, this is about an example of satisfaction.
Yeah.
That's going to be a great offer.
Of this.
And you know, that atlas people just won't buy your file, I don't know if you have any treasures.
That's one kind of satisfaction.
Let me show it to you.
Give me a chance just to talk about paper.
Okay, you see, here it is.
Here it is.
It's the... This copy belongs to the Grenville family, who were great 18th century collectors.
That is the book plate of the very prime minister who was in when the Sam Pact occurred.
There's Arthur Houghton's complaint.
And then it's full of these sort of AIA triptychs up and down the coast.
This is the original binding?
This is the original 17th century.
Beautiful ship, beautiful paper.
All right.
Here, wait a minute.
Let me take that.
Let me, because it has such a thing.
Let me take, wait a minute, if I can find it.
It's the same detail.
Isn't it great?
How is this listed in the catalog?
See, it's called the Hack Atlas.
H.A.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.
And they hand about vaulting copies made for the leading politicians to save their lives.
You know, they're broad.
So every copy belongs to the king, belongs to the future king, belong to Lord somebody or Lord somebody else.
There are about two or three copies of the British Library.
The Huntington has one.
There are a few copies around.
But it was our only shot to get one.
How many have you got together to say?
I believe there are nine or 10 hacks.
I know.
And every one is different.
And if they say, if you spend $150,000 for that, add a zero to it, that's probably a $1.5 million dollar book.
It's entirely possible.
We add a zero.
Yeah, that's the rule of thumb.
I'd love to do that.
Give me a chance just to put the tape on the other side.